TODO.md, before:

# TODO

## Completed but not released (1.2.10.2)

- Fixed
  - Fix `INVOKEGET_INTERFACE_PROXY` and `INVOKEGET_INTERFACE_PROXY_NOPARAMS` break build when returning `LazyList<T>`.
  - Fix button behavior when not IgnoreChildControlMouseEvents.
  - Fix control not losing focus when disabled.
  - Fix progress bar is focusable.
  - Fix `GuiListControl` incompatible with non-default axis.
  - Fix `GuiTextList::SelectionChanged` not raised when changing properties of the only selected `list::TextItem`.
  - Fix `GuiVirtualListView` in `Details` view column header height doesn't sync to item arranger in real-time.
- `GuiTreeItemTemplate` change base class to `GuiListItemTemplate`
- `GuiListControl::IItemProvider(Callback)?` moved to `vl::presentation::controls::list`.
- Make `ItemSource` class of bindable list controls reflectable.

## Known Issues

- Replace `LoadLibrary` with `GetModuleHandle` in `EnableCrossKernelCrashing`.
- `GuiVirtualRepeatCompositionBase`.
  - Eliminate double `ForceCalculateSizeImmediately()` calls in `TestCompositions_VirtualRepeat.cpp` (TODO) and related files.
- FakeDialogService
  - `FakeDialogServiceBase::ShowModalDialogAndDelete` place the window in the center of `owner` instead of the screen.
  - Specify multiple extensions in one filter, exactly like Win32 API.
  - Extensions not applied before checking file existance.
- Expanding collapsing tree nodes cause the whole list to rebuild, which glitch during multiple passes of layout.
  - Only affected items need to rebuild.
- Bindable list control (optional)
  - When a property referenced by `<att.XXXProperty>` is updated, the list item is not refreshed.
    - Need to find a way to listen to the event.
- For all list controls, adding item could cause flashing during rendering for about 1 flame.
  - If this issue is solved, remove document in `Breaking changes from 1.0` and `List Controls`.
- `controller(Unr|R)elatedPlugins` in `IGuiPlugin(Manager)?` lower dependency safety.
  - Change `GUI_PLUGIN_NAME` to `GUI_PLUGIN_CONTROLLER_(UN)RELATED`.
  - Remove the two parameters from `IGuiPlugin`, the macro above already specified it clear enough.
  - Unrelated plugins are not allowed to depend on related plugins.

## Known Issues (Unit Test)

- `(H|V)(Tracker|Scroll)/Mouse`
  - when `Drag to Center` the handler should be highlighted, because the mouse is right above the handler.
- `GuiScrollContainer`
  - Only calling `Set(Horizontal|Vertical)AlwaysVisible(false)` doesn't make scrolls disappear. `SetVisible(false)` on scrolls are verified called.
  - When the content is changed, configuration needs 2 idle frames to be correctly configured.
- `GuiListItemTemplate/ArrangerAndAxis(WithScrolls)`
  - items are not aligned to proper corner when scrolls are invisible.
- `GuiVirtualListView`
  - `Data_32.png` isn't property rendered in `UnitTestSnapshotViewer`
- `GuiVirtualTreeView`
  - `Data_16.png` isn't property rendered in `UnitTestSnapshotViewer`

## Release (optional)

- GacUI Binary Resource (when new features are added)
  - Upgrade GacUI XML Resource to 1.3, force on all resources instead of only depended or depending resource.
  - Require binary pattern "[GXR-1.3]" at the beginning of the binary resource.
  - Resource compiler and loader will check the version and only accept 1.3.

## Release Milestone (1.2.10.2)

- GacUI
  - Fix `Global Objects` in `GacUI.h`.
  - Thinking about promote SyncDom data structures for unit test, and complete a diff algorithm.
    - Unit test framework
      - Generate `domId` for each dom node: element(id), virtual(-element.id-2), root(-1), hittest(find a way).
      - Diff algorithm based on `domId`
      - Mouse wheel trigger functions.
    - Unit Test Snapshot Viewer
      - Show dom nodes in a tree view in the right side of the rendering tab optionally.
      - Select dom node and jump to other tabs with highlight.
- Non-editing control unit test (using DarkSkin)
  - TreeView Node events (mouse/key + expanded/collapsed) in `TestControls_List_GuiVirtualTreeListControl.cpp`
  - Menu, Toolstrip and Navigation ...
    - ComboBox
    - GuiDatePicker
    - GuiDateComboBox
  - BindableControls
    - Set or reset item source
    - Set or reset property bindings
  - BindableDataGrid
    - ItemTemplate with properties
    - Item manipulation
    - Extra mouse operations
    - Extra key operations 
    - Row and Cell extensions
  - Ribbon ...
  - Check all control key operation, ensure accessibility.
- More unit test
  - `GuiControl` and servives
  - `[TAB]`
  - `ControlThemeName` property
  - Multiple active `GuiWindow`, modal, order, `Enabled`
  - `GuiTab` item manipulation and `[TAB]`
  - `MouseWheel`
    - Behavior on scrolls, trackers, scroll containers and list controls
    - `GuiListControl` item events
    - `GuiVirtualTreeListControl` node events
- Document
  - `GuiTreeItemTemplate` change base class to `GuiListItemTemplate`
- `GuiListControl::IItemProvider(Callback)?` moved to `vl::presentation::controls::list`

## Release Milestone (1.2.11.0)

- GacUI
  - `<RawRendering/>` element.
    - It will be mapped to `GDIElement` or `Direct2DElement` in different renderers.
    - In remote protocol, it is an element with no extra properties.
    - In HTML, it would open a `<div/>` and you can do whatever you want using JavaScript.
- Remote protocol redirection back to native rendering:
  - In the test project, C++ side will expose the remote protocol via dll.
  - Implement the remote protocol on a native `INativeController` instance.
    - It could not be used on `GuiHostedController` or `GuiRemoteController`, which is not a native implementation.
- JavaScript rendering:
  - Delete all `GacJS` code. This repo will be used to implement the HTML logic.
  - A codegen for remote protocol and print TypeScript code.
  - In the test project, C++ side will start a HTTP service on Windows.
  - JavaScript side will separate the rendering and the protocol.
  - Try DOM.
  - Try Canvas.
    - https://github.com/WICG/canvas-formatted-text/blob/main/README.md
      - layout provider could not be done until this is implemented.
  - Try EsBuild to replace WebPack.
- The experiment will only run a very simple UI that covers all implemented remote protocol so far.
  - Basic elements
  - Image
  - No text box or document

## Release Milestone (1.2.12.0)

- All control unit test (using DarkSkin)
  - Tooltip.
  - Dialogs.
  - A mechanism to replace `vl::filesystem` implementation.
  - Add window resizing constraint messages.
  - Implement `ColorizedTextElement` and `DocumentElement`.
    - Think about how to calculate size for document.
  - Typing trigger functions in unit test framework.
  - Check all control key operation, ensure accessibility.
    - Cannot scroll `GuiScrollView`, key operations needed and also need to be disabled for `GuiListControl` because it has already defined item selection keys.
    - `Gui(Bindable)TextList` cannot check or uncheck items by key (enter and space).
    - `GuiVirtualListView` cannot operate column headers by key.
- Sample unit test project included in release.
  - Reflection enabled
    - Application and `LoadMainWindow` script in separated XML resource files.
    - Application and `LoadMainWindow` script in separated compiled resource files.
  - Reflection disabled
    - Application in compiled C++ files.
    - There is no `LoadMainWindow` in this case.
- Document
  - Unit test framework.
  - Unit test framework in Vlpp.
  - Remote Protocol.

## Release Milestone (1.2.13.0)

- SyncObj architecture that streams ViewModel object changes.
  - See README.md in Workflow repo (**ViewModel Remoting C++ Codegen**).
  - GacGen offers Metadata of interfaces
  - Network protocols are not included as default implementation
- New tutorials
  - A GacUI D2D process connecting to a server process for streaming ViewModel
    - ViewModel implements in C++ and C#
- Document
  - SyncObj.
  - Fix `/doc/current/home.html`
    - Introduction to hosted / remote
  - Fix `/doc/current/gacui/home.html`
    - Introduction to hosted / remote

## Release Milestone (1.3.0.0)

- A remote protocol implementation on existing `INativeController` implementation.
  - Network protocols are not included as default implementation.
  - Take care of `wchar_t` when server and client have different understanding to its size.
- New tutorials.
  - A GacUI SyncDom process connecting to a server process for streaming graphics.
    - GDI+ implements in C#.
    - GDI/D2D implements in C++.
- Rewrite `GacBuild.ps1` and `GacClear.ps1` in C++, but still keep them just doing redirection for backward compatibility.
- Get rid of `Deploy.bat` in `GacGen.ps1` and `GacGen.exe`.

## Release Milestone (1.3.1.0)
- `Variant` and `Union` with full support.
  - Document.
  - Document `vl::Overloading`.
- Extensible CLI argument parser acception different OS convention, serialization and module dependencies.
  - Structured error report.
  - Extensible error message localization relying on GacUI XML Resource localization feature.
  - Pre-made main function per OS, defining arguments for different renderers for the current OS, including remoting server with predefine protocols.
- More optimistic SyncDom strategy to reduce messages.
- Windows
  - Ensure `INativeWindow::(Before|After)Closing()` is not called on non-main-window between the main window is closed and the application exits.
- Enlarging window slower than shrinking.
- https://github.com/vczh-libraries/Vlpp/issues/9

## Release Milestone (future releases)

- Strict check in different for-each loops.

## OS Provider Features

- Windows
  - `INativeImage::SaveToStream` handle correctly for git format. It is possible that LoadFromStream need to process diff between git raw frames.
- UI Automation.
- Test Automation.
  - Standard test for OS providers, may need a test purpose automation service to do https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-sendinput

## Control Features

- `IColumnItemView`.
  - Change column size from `int` to `{minSize:int, columnOption:Absolute|Percentage, absolute:int, percentage:float}`
  - Column drag and drop.
    - ListView: only raises an event, developers need to update column headers and data by themselves.
    - DataGrid: swap column object, cells are changed due to binding.
- ListView.
  - Make a common template base class for `IItemProvider` implementation of bindable and non-bindable pair of the same virtual control:
    - The template argument would be the base class which implements the differences.
    - `list::TextItemProvider` vs `GuiBindableTextList::ItemSource`.
    - `list::ListViewItemProvider` vs `GuiBindableListView::ItemSource`.
      - Extends to `list::DataProvider`.
    - `tree::TreeViewItemRootProvider` vs `GuiBindableTreeView::ItemSource`.
  - `GuiBindableDataGrid`:
    - Add customizable row visualizer.
    - The default (or `nullptr`) row visualizer displays cell visualizer and editor.
  - `GuiBindableTreeDataGrid`:
    - Offer a default group header row visualizer when users only need one level of collapsable `GuiBindableDataGrid`.
    - Replace the new `list::DataProvider`'s base class with `tree::NodeItemProvider` offering `GuiBindableTreeView::ItemSource` to make a useful data source.
- Upgraded Code editor (need VlppParser2)
- Touch support.

## Drag and Drop

- Drag and Drop framework.
  - Substitutable.
  - `GuiFakeDragAndDropService`.
    - Activated by substitution when an OS dependent implementation is not available.
- Dock container.
  - Use drag and drop to perform docking.
  - A small framework for implementing dock guiding UI.
  - A predefined dockable tool window for users that are fine with the default behavior about how to transfer content to the dock container.
  - A "binary tree layout/control" for implementing VS-like dock container.

## Graphics

- 2D drawing API, optional at runtime.
  - Default non-text element renderer using 2D drawing API.
    - Activated only when 2D drawing API is available and renderer implementations are unavailable.
  - Ensure OS providers without 2D drawing API still work.
- restriction-based Meta2DElement.
  - If 2D drawing API is not available, display a text using `SolidLabel`.
- Meta3DElement and Meta3D data structure.
  - Default Meta3DElement renderer using Meta2DElement with a surface sorting based algorithm.
- 2D Chart control based on Meta2DElement.
- 3D Chart control based on Meta3DElement.
- GIF player.
- video player.

## Porting to New Platforms

- Port GacUI to other platforms:
  - Unit Test (**Remote**)
  - Windows
    - GDI (**Normal**, **Hosted**, Remote)
    - Direct2d (**Normal**, **Hosted**, Remotec)
    - UWP (Remote)
  - Linux
    - gGac repo: improve development process for release
  - macOS
    - iGac repo: improve development process for release
  - Browser (Remote)
    - HTTP for test purpose
    - WebAssembly
  - CLI (optional, needs dedicated skin)
    - Command-line/Powershell in Windows (Remote)
    - Ncurses on Ubuntu (Remote)
- Port GacUI to other languages:
  - Applications written in other language can:
    - Implement view model (SyncObj).
    - Render the UI (Remote).
  - Languages:
    - JavaScript / TypeScript
      - HTTP for test purpose
      - WebAssembly
    - .NET
    - Python

## GacUI (unprioritized)

- DarkSkin Color Theme.
  - Create a `DarkSkinPalette` class with a static getter method to retrive default colors.
    - Update all `Style.xml` colors to use `DarkSkinPalette`.
  - Add a static setter to `DarkSkinPalette`.
    - A window can be called to update all its controls' and components' template.
    - The above function will be called inside the setter.
- `INativeWindow` add callback for state changing.
  - Including `MaximizedBox`, `MinimizedBox`, `Border`, `SizeBox`, `IconVisible`, `TitleBar`, `Icon`, `Title`, `SizeState`.
  - In `GuiControlHost` or `GuiWindow`, setting border or state doesn't update the control template, it is updated in that callback.
  - Delete `GuiControlHost` and `GuiWindow`'s `OnVisualStatusChanged`.
- FakeDialogService
  - message box disable `X` button if `Cancel` is not in the button list or `OK` is the only button.
- GDI
  - Big cursor of document empty line (GDI)
  - In hosted mode, non-main window doesn't shrink when moving back to low DPI monitor.
- Hosted
  - When dragging left/top border if the main window, the window move if the size is smaller than the minimum size.
- Rewrite calculator state machine demo, when "+" is pressed, jump into "WaitingAnotherOperandForPlus" state machine, instead of storing the operation in a loop. So there will be no loop except for waiting for numbers.
- Check makefile for ParserGen/GlrParserGen/CodePack/CppMerge/GacGen
  - Write maketools.sh
- Add `MoveToScreenCenterAfterLayout` as what is done in `FakeDialogServiceBase::ShowModalDialogAndDelete`.
- New default control templates with animation, written in XML generated C++ code.
- Use the embedded data codegen / compress / decompress functions from `VlppParser2` to replace one in `GacUI`.
- Use collection interfaces on function signatures.
  - Only if `Vlpp` decides to add collection interfaces.

## GacUI Resource Compiler (unplanned releases)

- Consider `-ani` binding, create an animation controller object that change the binded property, with predefined interpolation and other stuff.
  - All types that can do interpolation are value types, consider following formats:
    - "NAME:initial value"
    - "NAME(initial value in expression)"
    - Need to be consistent with animation object
  - Consider multiple `-ani` batch control, state configuration and transition, story board, connection to animation coroutine, etc.
- `<eval Eval="expression"/>` tags.
- Facade
  - A facade is a class with following methods:
    - **AddChild**: Accept a child facade or a child object.
    - **ApplyTo**: Accept a parent object, which is not a facade.
    - **Initialize** (optional): Called on the instance object between construction and `<ref.Ctor>`.
  - A facade could have properties but only accept assignment or `-eval` binding.
  - A facade could have an optional **InstanceFacadeVerifier** executed on GacGen compile time.
  - Built-in Layout and Form facade.
  - If `<XFacade>` or `<x:XFacade>` is an accessible and default constructible object, then `<X>` or `<x:X>` triggers a facade.

## GacUI Resource Compiler (unprioritized)

- In the final pass, only workflow scripts are printed.
  - Use WorkflowCompiler.exe to do codegen externally.
- Remove all loader implementation, enabling custom control types from developers.
  - Try not to include `GacUI.cpp` if `VCZH_DEBUG_METAONLY_REFLECTION` is on.
  - `mynamespaces::VirtualClasses_X` for adding virtual classes deriving from `mynamespaces::X`.
    - Containing methods like: `GuiSelectableButton* CheckBox()`.
  - `mynamespaces::InstanceLoader_X` for implementing different kinds of properties / constructors that do not exist in `mynamespaces::X`.
    - following a naming convention, e.g. `GuiTableComposition`'s rows/columns properties.
    - searching for correct default control templates.
- Incremental build inside single resource.
  - Calculate dependencies by only parsing.
  - Cache workflow assembly per resource in file.
  - Codegen c++ from multiple workflow assembly.

## New C++/Doc Compiler based on VlppParser2

## GacStudio

Commit message:

Fixed: UnitTestSnapshotViewer always not render the second loaded images

TODO.md, after:

# TODO

## Completed but not released (1.2.10.2)

- Fixed
  - Fix `INVOKEGET_INTERFACE_PROXY` and `INVOKEGET_INTERFACE_PROXY_NOPARAMS` break build when returning `LazyList<T>`.
  - Fix button behavior when not IgnoreChildControlMouseEvents.
  - Fix control not losing focus when disabled.
  - Fix progress bar is focusable.
  - Fix `GuiListControl` incompatible with non-default axis.
  - Fix `GuiTextList::SelectionChanged` not raised when changing properties of the only selected `list::TextItem`.
  - Fix `GuiVirtualListView` in `Details` view column header height doesn't sync to item arranger in real-time.
  - UnitTestSnapshotViewer always not render the second loaded images.
- `GuiTreeItemTemplate` change base class to `GuiListItemTemplate`
- `GuiListControl::IItemProvider(Callback)?` moved to `vl::presentation::controls::list`.
- Make `ItemSource` class of bindable list controls reflectable.

## Known Issues

- Replace `LoadLibrary` with `GetModuleHandle` in `EnableCrossKernelCrashing`.
- `GuiVirtualRepeatCompositionBase`.
  - Eliminate double `ForceCalculateSizeImmediately()` calls in `TestCompositions_VirtualRepeat.cpp` (TODO) and related files.
- FakeDialogService
  - `FakeDialogServiceBase::ShowModalDialogAndDelete` place the window in the center of `owner` instead of the screen.
  - Specify multiple extensions in one filter, exactly like Win32 API.
  - Extensions not applied before checking file existance.
- Expanding collapsing tree nodes cause the whole list to rebuild, which glitch during multiple passes of layout.
  - Only affected items need to rebuild.
- Bindable list control (optional)
  - When a property referenced by `<att.XXXProperty>` is updated, the list item is not refreshed.
    - Need to find a way to listen to the event.
- For all list controls, adding item could cause flashing during rendering for about 1 flame.
  - If this issue is solved, remove document in `Breaking changes from 1.0` and `List Controls`.
- `controller(Unr|R)elatedPlugins` in `IGuiPlugin(Manager)?` lower dependency safety.
  - Change `GUI_PLUGIN_NAME` to `GUI_PLUGIN_CONTROLLER_(UN)RELATED`.
  - Remove the two parameters from `IGuiPlugin`, the macro above already specified it clear enough.
  - Unrelated plugins are not allowed to depend on related plugins.

## Known Issues (Unit Test)

- `(H|V)(Tracker|Scroll)/Mouse`
  - when `Drag to Center` the handler should be highlighted, because the mouse is right above the handler.
- `GuiScrollContainer`
  - Only calling `Set(Horizontal|Vertical)AlwaysVisible(false)` doesn't make scrolls disappear. `SetVisible(false)` on scrolls are verified called.
  - When the content is changed, configuration needs 2 idle frames to be correctly configured.
- `GuiListItemTemplate/ArrangerAndAxis(WithScrolls)`
  - items are not aligned to proper corner when scrolls are invisible.

## Release (optional)

- GacUI Binary Resource (when new features are added)
  - Upgrade GacUI XML Resource to 1.3, force on all resources instead of only depended or depending resource.
  - Require binary pattern "[GXR-1.3]" at the beginning of the binary resource.
  - Resource compiler and loader will check the version and only accept 1.3.

## Release Milestone (1.2.10.2)

- GacUI
  - Fix `Global Objects` in `GacUI.h`.
  - Thinking about promote SyncDom data structures for unit test, and complete a diff algorithm.
    - Unit test framework
      - Generate `domId` for each dom node: element(id), virtual(-element.id-2), root(-1), hittest(find a way).
      - Diff algorithm based on `domId`
      - Mouse wheel trigger functions.
    - Unit Test Snapshot Viewer
      - Show dom nodes in a tree view in the right side of the rendering tab optionally.
      - Select dom node and jump to other tabs with highlight.
- Non-editing control unit test (using DarkSkin)
  - TreeView Node events (mouse/key + expanded/collapsed) in `TestControls_List_GuiVirtualTreeListControl.cpp`
  - Menu, Toolstrip and Navigation ...
    - ComboBox
    - GuiDatePicker
    - GuiDateComboBox
  - BindableControls
    - Set or reset item source
    - Set or reset property bindings
  - BindableDataGrid
    - ItemTemplate with properties
    - Item manipulation
    - Extra mouse operations
    - Extra key operations 
    - Row and Cell extensions
  - Ribbon ...
  - Check all control key operation, ensure accessibility.
- More unit test
  - `GuiControl` and servives
  - `[TAB]`
  - `ControlThemeName` property
  - Multiple active `GuiWindow`, modal, order, `Enabled`
  - `GuiTab` item manipulation and `[TAB]`
  - `MouseWheel`
    - Behavior on scrolls, trackers, scroll containers and list controls
    - `GuiListControl` item events
    - `GuiVirtualTreeListControl` node events
- Document
  - `GuiTreeItemTemplate` change base class to `GuiListItemTemplate`
- `GuiListControl::IItemProvider(Callback)?` moved to `vl::presentation::controls::list`

## Release Milestone (1.2.11.0)

- GacUI
  - `<RawRendering/>` element.
    - It will be mapped to `GDIElement` or `Direct2DElement` in different renderers.
    - In remote protocol, it is an element with no extra properties.
    - In HTML, it would open a `<div/>` and you can do whatever you want using JavaScript.
- Remote protocol redirection back to native rendering:
  - In the test project, C++ side will expose the remote protocol via dll.
  - Implement the remote protocol on a native `INativeController` instance.
    - It could not be used on `GuiHostedController` or `GuiRemoteController`, which is not a native implementation.
- JavaScript rendering:
  - Delete all `GacJS` code. This repo will be used to implement the HTML logic.
  - A codegen for remote protocol and print TypeScript code.
  - In the test project, C++ side will start a HTTP service on Windows.
  - JavaScript side will separate the rendering and the protocol.
  - Try DOM.
  - Try Canvas.
    - https://github.com/WICG/canvas-formatted-text/blob/main/README.md
      - layout provider could not be done until this is implemented.
  - Try EsBuild to replace WebPack.
- The experiment will only run a very simple UI that covers all implemented remote protocol so far.
  - Basic elements
  - Image
  - No text box or document

## Release Milestone (1.2.12.0)

- All control unit test (using DarkSkin)
  - Tooltip.
  - Dialogs.
  - A mechanism to replace `vl::filesystem` implementation.
  - Add window resizing constraint messages.
  - Implement `ColorizedTextElement` and `DocumentElement`.
    - Think about how to calculate size for document.
  - Typing trigger functions in unit test framework.
  - Check all control key operation, ensure accessibility.
    - Cannot scroll `GuiScrollView`, key operations needed and also need to be disabled for `GuiListControl` because it has already defined item selection keys.
    - `Gui(Bindable)TextList` cannot check or uncheck items by key (enter and space).
    - `GuiVirtualListView` cannot operate column headers by key.
- Sample unit test project included in release.
  - Reflection enabled
    - Application and `LoadMainWindow` script in separated XML resource files.
    - Application and `LoadMainWindow` script in separated compiled resource files.
  - Reflection disabled
    - Application in compiled C++ files.
    - There is no `LoadMainWindow` in this case.
- Document
  - Unit test framework.
  - Unit test framework in Vlpp.
  - Remote Protocol.

## Release Milestone (1.2.13.0)

- SyncObj architecture that streams ViewModel object changes.
  - See README.md in Workflow repo (**ViewModel Remoting C++ Codegen**).
  - GacGen offers Metadata of interfaces
  - Network protocols are not included as default implementation
- New tutorials
  - A GacUI D2D process connecting to a server process for streaming ViewModel
    - ViewModel implements in C++ and C#
- Document
  - SyncObj.
  - Fix `/doc/current/home.html`
    - Introduction to hosted / remote
  - Fix `/doc/current/gacui/home.html`
    - Introduction to hosted / remote

## Release Milestone (1.3.0.0)

- A remote protocol implementation on existing `INativeController` implementation.
  - Network protocols are not included as default implementation.
  - Take care of `wchar_t` when server and client have different understanding to its size.
- New tutorials.
  - A GacUI SyncDom process connecting to a server process for streaming graphics.
    - GDI+ implements in C#.
    - GDI/D2D implements in C++.
- Rewrite `GacBuild.ps1` and `GacClear.ps1` in C++, but still keep them just doing redirection for backward compatibility.
- Get rid of `Deploy.bat` in `GacGen.ps1` and `GacGen.exe`.

## Release Milestone (1.3.1.0)
- `Variant` and `Union` with full support.
  - Document.
  - Document `vl::Overloading`.
- Extensible CLI argument parser acception different OS convention, serialization and module dependencies.
  - Structured error report.
  - Extensible error message localization relying on GacUI XML Resource localization feature.
  - Pre-made main function per OS, defining arguments for different renderers for the current OS, including remoting server with predefine protocols.
- More optimistic SyncDom strategy to reduce messages.
- Windows
  - Ensure `INativeWindow::(Before|After)Closing()` is not called on non-main-window between the main window is closed and the application exits.
- Enlarging window slower than shrinking.
- https://github.com/vczh-libraries/Vlpp/issues/9

## Release Milestone (future releases)

- Strict check in different for-each loops.

## OS Provider Features

- Windows
  - `INativeImage::SaveToStream` handle correctly for git format. It is possible that LoadFromStream need to process diff between git raw frames.
- UI Automation.
- Test Automation.
  - Standard test for OS providers, may need a test purpose automation service to do https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-sendinput

## Control Features

- `IColumnItemView`.
  - Change column size from `int` to `{minSize:int, columnOption:Absolute|Percentage, absolute:int, percentage:float}`
  - Column drag and drop.
    - ListView: only raises an event, developers need to update column headers and data by themselves.
    - DataGrid: swap column object, cells are changed due to binding.
- ListView.
  - Make a common template base class for `IItemProvider` implementation of bindable and non-bindable pair of the same virtual control:
    - The template argument would be the base class which implements the differences.
    - `list::TextItemProvider` vs `GuiBindableTextList::ItemSource`.
    - `list::ListViewItemProvider` vs `GuiBindableListView::ItemSource`.
      - Extends to `list::DataProvider`.
    - `tree::TreeViewItemRootProvider` vs `GuiBindableTreeView::ItemSource`.
  - `GuiBindableDataGrid`:
    - Add customizable row visualizer.
    - The default (or `nullptr`) row visualizer displays cell visualizer and editor.
  - `GuiBindableTreeDataGrid`:
    - Offer a default group header row visualizer when users only need one level of collapsable `GuiBindableDataGrid`.
    - Replace the new `list::DataProvider`'s base class with `tree::NodeItemProvider` offering `GuiBindableTreeView::ItemSource` to make a useful data source.
- Upgraded Code editor (need VlppParser2)
- Touch support.

## Drag and Drop

- Drag and Drop framework.
  - Substitutable.
  - `GuiFakeDragAndDropService`.
    - Activated by substitution when an OS dependent implementation is not available.
- Dock container.
  - Use drag and drop to perform docking.
  - A small framework for implementing dock guiding UI.
  - A predefined dockable tool window for users that are fine with the default behavior about how to transfer content to the dock container.
  - A "binary tree layout/control" for implementing VS-like dock container.

## Graphics

- 2D drawing API, optional at runtime.
  - Default non-text element renderer using 2D drawing API.
    - Activated only when 2D drawing API is available and renderer implementations are unavailable.
  - Ensure OS providers without 2D drawing API still work.
- restriction-based Meta2DElement.
  - If 2D drawing API is not available, display a text using `SolidLabel`.
- Meta3DElement and Meta3D data structure.
  - Default Meta3DElement renderer using Meta2DElement with a surface sorting based algorithm.
- 2D Chart control based on Meta2DElement.
- 3D Chart control based on Meta3DElement.
- GIF player.
- video player.

## Porting to New Platforms

- Port GacUI to other platforms:
  - Unit Test (**Remote**)
  - Windows
    - GDI (**Normal**, **Hosted**, Remote)
    - Direct2d (**Normal**, **Hosted**, Remotec)
    - UWP (Remote)
  - Linux
    - gGac repo: improve development process for release
  - macOS
    - iGac repo: improve development process for release
  - Browser (Remote)
    - HTTP for test purpose
    - WebAssembly
  - CLI (optional, needs dedicated skin)
    - Command-line/Powershell in Windows (Remote)
    - Ncurses on Ubuntu (Remote)
- Port GacUI to other languages:
  - Applications written in other language can:
    - Implement view model (SyncObj).
    - Render the UI (Remote).
  - Languages:
    - JavaScript / TypeScript
      - HTTP for test purpose
      - WebAssembly
    - .NET
    - Python

## GacUI (unprioritized)

- DarkSkin Color Theme.
  - Create a `DarkSkinPalette` class with a static getter method to retrive default colors.
    - Update all `Style.xml` colors to use `DarkSkinPalette`.
  - Add a static setter to `DarkSkinPalette`.
    - A window can be called to update all its controls' and components' template.
    - The above function will be called inside the setter.
- `INativeWindow` add callback for state changing.
  - Including `MaximizedBox`, `MinimizedBox`, `Border`, `SizeBox`, `IconVisible`, `TitleBar`, `Icon`, `Title`, `SizeState`.
  - In `GuiControlHost` or `GuiWindow`, setting border or state doesn't update the control template, it is updated in that callback.
  - Delete `GuiControlHost` and `GuiWindow`'s `OnVisualStatusChanged`.
- FakeDialogService
  - message box disable `X` button if `Cancel` is not in the button list or `OK` is the only button.
- GDI
  - Big cursor of document empty line (GDI)
  - In hosted mode, non-main window doesn't shrink when moving back to low DPI monitor.
- Hosted
  - When dragging left/top border if the main window, the window move if the size is smaller than the minimum size.
- Rewrite calculator state machine demo, when "+" is pressed, jump into "WaitingAnotherOperandForPlus" state machine, instead of storing the operation in a loop. So there will be no loop except for waiting for numbers.
- Check makefile for ParserGen/GlrParserGen/CodePack/CppMerge/GacGen
  - Write maketools.sh
- Add `MoveToScreenCenterAfterLayout` as what is done in `FakeDialogServiceBase::ShowModalDialogAndDelete`.
- New default control templates with animation, written in XML generated C++ code.
- Use the embedded data codegen / compress / decompress functions from `VlppParser2` to replace one in `GacUI`.
- Use collection interfaces on function signatures.
  - Only if `Vlpp` decides to add collection interfaces.

## GacUI Resource Compiler (unplanned releases)

- Consider `-ani` binding, create an animation controller object that change the binded property, with predefined interpolation and other stuff.
  - All types that can do interpolation are value types, consider following formats:
    - "NAME:initial value"
    - "NAME(initial value in expression)"
    - Need to be consistent with animation object
  - Consider multiple `-ani` batch control, state configuration and transition, story board, connection to animation coroutine, etc.
- `<eval Eval="expression"/>` tags.
- Facade
  - A facade is a class with following methods:
    - **AddChild**: Accept a child facade or a child object.
    - **ApplyTo**: Accept a parent object, which is not a facade.
    - **Initialize** (optional): Called on the instance object between construction and `<ref.Ctor>`.
  - A facade could have properties but only accept assignment or `-eval` binding.
  - A facade could have an optional **InstanceFacadeVerifier** executed on GacGen compile time.
  - Built-in Layout and Form facade.
  - If `<XFacade>` or `<x:XFacade>` is an accessible and default constructible object, then `<X>` or `<x:X>` triggers a facade.

## GacUI Resource Compiler (unprioritized)

- In the final pass, only workflow scripts are printed.
  - Use WorkflowCompiler.exe to do codegen externally.
- Remove all loader implementation, enabling custom control types from developers.
  - Try not to include `GacUI.cpp` if `VCZH_DEBUG_METAONLY_REFLECTION` is on.
  - `mynamespaces::VirtualClasses_X` for adding virtual classes deriving from `mynamespaces::X`.
    - Containing methods like: `GuiSelectableButton* CheckBox()`.
  - `mynamespaces::InstanceLoader_X` for implementing different kinds of properties / constructors that do not exist in `mynamespaces::X`.
    - following a naming convention, e.g. `GuiTableComposition`'s rows/columns properties.
    - searching for correct default control templates.
- Incremental build inside single resource.
  - Calculate dependencies by only parsing.
  - Cache workflow assembly per resource in file.
  - Codegen c++ from multiple workflow assembly.

## New C++/Doc Compiler based on VlppParser2

## GacStudio
