Test/GacUISrc/README.md, before:

﻿# GacUI Developer's Projects

- **Metadata_Generate**: Run both Win32 and X64 to generate metaonly reflection binary files
- **Metadata_Test**: Test the generated binary files
- **GacUI_Compiler**: Compile `Host/Resources/FullControlTest/Resource.xml` and get both binary and C++ files, with `VCZH_DEBUG_METAONLY_REFLECTION`
- **GacUI_Host**: Load the compiled binary file and run
- **CppTest**: Compile and run generated C++ files with `VCZH_DEBUG_NO_REFLECTION`
- **CppTest_Metaonly**: Compile and run generated C++ files with `VCZH_DEBUG_METAONLY_REFLECTION`
- **CppTest_Reflection**: Compile and run generated C++ files
- **Playground**: Compile and load XML with generated DarkSkin
- **UnitTest**: Test cases for GacUI compiler

- **Lib_**: Lib files under different configurations
  - **Use Library Dependencies Input** must be turned on for all exe projects

## Notice

- Run **Metadata_Generate** and **Metadata_Test** to update types.
- Run **GacUI_Compiler** if
  - DarkSkin or FullControlTest is changed.
  - Switch to a configuration other than Debug|Win32.

Commit message:

Make Metadata_Test test both x86 and x64 at the same time

Test/GacUISrc/README.md, after:

﻿# GacUI Developer's Projects

- **Metadata_Generate**: Run both Win32 and X64 to generate metaonly reflection binary files.
- **Metadata_Test**: Test the generated binary files, both Win32 and X64 at the same time.
- **GacUI_Compiler**: Compile `Host/Resources/FullControlTest/Resource.xml` and get both binary and C++ files, with `VCZH_DEBUG_METAONLY_REFLECTION`.
- **GacUI_Host**: Load the compiled binary file and run.
- **CppTest**: Compile and run generated C++ files in **hosted mode** with `VCZH_DEBUG_NO_REFLECTION`.
- **CppTest_Metaonly**: Compile and run generated C++ files with `VCZH_DEBUG_METAONLY_REFLECTION`.
- **CppTest_Reflection**: Compile and run generated C++ files.
- **Playground**: Compile and load XML with generated DarkSkin.
- **UnitTest**: Test cases for GacUI.

- **Lib_**: Lib files under different configurations
  - **Use Library Dependencies Input** must be turned on for all exe projects

## Notice

- Run **Metadata_Generate** in both Win32 and X64 to generate binary files.
- Run **Metadata_Test** to update types.
- Run **GacUI_Compiler** if DarkSkin or FullControlTest is changed.
